# Hour-of-CI :floppy_disk: :snake: (In Progress)

This repository is for the [Hour of Cyberinfrastructure NSF funded grant](https://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1829708). Paired with academics across the nation, I'm assisting to create a backend system to help administer and collect metrics of the students that are participating and learning through the provided material. Below is a description of the project and my role. This is still in development so this repository will be updated often. 


## Project Overview
Hour of Cyberinfrastructure is a National Science Foundation (NSF) funded project with an aimed objective to deepen student’s understanding and skill sets in regards to cyber literacy for GIScience. With the importance of data science knowledge and skill sets increasing, there is an apparent need to educate the future workforce to leverage computational resources to succeed in the knowledge economy. Through this project, 17 lessons will be developed in the following eight core areas: Big Data, Computational Thinking, Cyberinfrastructure, Interdisciplinary Communication, Geospatial Data, Parallel Computing, Spatial Modeling & Analytics, and Spatial Thinking. Introducing individuals to these topics in Cyberinfrastructure through interactive lesson breaks down the barrier to learning and leveraging these skills in their own domain. As lessons are implemented through partners across the United States, metrics will be recorded to measure how individuals are interacting throughout lessons. With a myriad of options in learning technical concepts online, there are no mechanisms to assess the effectiveness of the material itself. Through Jupyter Notebook lesson deployment, customized Jupyter Widgets aid in providing the user with interactive pieces to guide them through the complexities of learning technical material. These widgets provide validation to questions, track user metrics, and log all the information to a central database. The tracked metrics will act as a proxy to understand how our user base progresses through each lesson. This granular approach will not only aid in the creation and adjustment of material, but it will assist in answering how students learn complex technical material. Though this is the foundational stage, this data will be instrumental in the construction of future material to help progress the teachings across different fields. Bridging the gap of skills and refining our pedagogical approach in the production of material marks great promise in the expansion of cyberliteracy across different communities. 

